.TH CHKLNKS 8l "28 May r1.118
.SH NAME
.B chklnks
- locates and optionally removes broken symbolic links.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBchklnks\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-h \fI<hostid|>\fR] [\fB-r\fR]
[\fB-V\fR] [\fB-v\fR] [\fI<directory> ...\fR]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B chklnks
is a Bourne shell script which should work equally well on all versions of UNIX
and Linux.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The script
.BR chklnks ,
runs "\fBfind\fR"
to locate files which are symbolic links where the target file is missing
.LP
By default the path and file name of any broken link found are echoed to
to "\fIstandard out\fR".
.LP
The script is mostly usefully invoked by 
"\fIcron\fR" to a regular weekly schedule. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
\fB-a\fR
Check all the local read write filesystems on the target host
.TP 5
\fB-d\fR
Set the script to debug mode.
.TP 5
\fB-h \fI<hostname>\fR
.br
Run the script on a remote host.
.TP 5
.B -r
Broken symbolic links are removed.
.TP 5
.B -v
Set the operation mode of the script to 
.IR verbose .
In
.I verbose mode
.B chklnks
will report any broken symbolic links and their removal to
\fIstandard out\fR. 
.TP 5
.I <directory>
If given on the command line
.I <directory>
is the starting point for the
.BR find .
Multiple space separated directories may be listed on the command line.
.IP
If no \fI<directory>\fR is nominated on the command line the current directory
is is used as the starting point.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.ft CW
chklnks 
.fi
.ft R
.LP
From the current directory search recursively for broken symbolic links
and report any found to
/fIstandard out/fR.
.LP
.nf
.ft CW
chklnks -v -r /src/merlin/usr/local/web 
.fi
.ft R
.LP
Starting from 
\fI/src/merlin/usr/local/web\fR do a recursive search for broken symbolic
links and remove them. Report each file deleted to standard out.
.SH FILES
.IR /usr/local/etc/chklnks.cf .
.SH BUGS
The script has no input error checking. I'm a bit worried about what happens
if filenames with white space in them are found. These names will be passed
to \fBrm\fR as multiple file names which could potentially match real files!
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR chkdf ,
.IR chkftpd ,
.IR chkfw ,
.IR clean .
.SH AUTHOR
Clifford W Fulford of City Linux.
.br
Offering systems management and support for
Linux, Windows and Apple environments. Contact fulford@fulford.net or +44 (0)709 229 5385.
